okay so if you read the Constitution
Canada okay so under the Constitution
right
article six charter rights and freedoms
Canadians is and has the right to join
Canada right so so how could I be to for
if a foreigner is coming here as a
tourist understand if a coroner's come
here in a work permit maybe there are
issues if a Canadian citizen is returned
to Canada you are telling me that it is
possible for them to be too poor to be
allowed to enter Canada because nobody
asked me questions about that they
weren't asking you about my my income
that cent but I but it was on the way in
degan that was a rising right okay yeah
right so when my bags were searched
every document including handwritten
documents were read okay so we're
searching for drugs when you read my
private divorce documents when you read
handwritten stories between me and my
daughter
like what's the justifications for that
sorry but all of these things are wildly
out of whack with both what the
Constitution says in principle and in
practice and with the extensive one
actual recently I completely believe in
more security I completely believe in
searching for drugs great
however searching for drugs would not
justify either that line of questioning
or reading hidden documents of my
luggage to me that's lares great our V
Simmons 1988 I completely agree I
complain where they shouldn't I
encourage them to I said great go ahead
and search my luggage great yeah wait
right okay right sure so just let me ask
when I said I have the right to remain
silent
I said look I I you know I'm gonna
decline to answer questions that are
totally unrelated to the concept and I
continue to answer questions about my
luggage electro that's fine completely
appropriate for the situation I was told
no you do not have the right to remain
silent
right right right
but up on a search yesterday right right
wait
but obstruction of justice only applies
if you have committed a crime if I'm
concealing a crime if I have not
committed any crime I can't be guilty of
obstruction of justice right right this
paperwork was used completely
maliciously in they admit it and it was
used maliciously for reasons they stated
the woman interrogating me openly stood
angrily shouting at me from the minute I
came in the room that she thought I was
arrogant and she was gonna punish me for
that this is open so malice in conduct
was openly and proudly stated to my face
so what are you sayin what'd she say um
an investigation into or not even
investigation will be a lower legal term
here what when you say there there may
be a consideration of how to improve
officers conduct I mean that component
in most of these things would just be a
management level discussion there's no
question here of a criminal charge I
really do understand that my university
education is in political science I
don't have a reasonable expectation of
these things um so when that happens
with the police or even with like the
manager at Starbucks you say well look
something went wrong here um there is
some degree of public transparency where
you you know we could inform a look you
know management did take a look at this
and whatever even if it's a completely
hall apology that you're say well look
we're gonna try to do better next time
we realize this wasn't optimal so you're
telling me there's there's nothing
possible on that front cuz I assume
everything is on videotape
I assume everybody's people yelling at
me and interrogating me and trying to
intimidate me I assume this is all
entailed a right so there's no there's
no overstep body and therefore so I mean
to give an example let's say I wanted to
employ a lawyer and actually get the
footage get the surveillance footage so
that I can make use of it is there a
procedure for that
um oh no I mean but you don't think
thank you for thank you for telling me
that um you know the other question I
have for you which is obviously mostly
for future reference do I have the legal
right to record myself when I'm going
through customs given that will you tell
me that I understand I appreciate it is
that basically I have absolutely no
human rights and no recourse to any kind
of legal or judicial oversight
afterwards do I have the ability to say
make an audio recording or video
recording on my mobile phone while I'm
being interrogated okay so no thank you
for telling me that I think that's worth
getting rid of I'll probably publish a
newspaper article and that's on this
experience so you do have the legal
right to record yourself while going
through Canadian customs that's really
important now look I just want to say
you know I think what's really
interesting about this situation you I
don't know if you will yourself see the
see the footage
um this and I'm not I'm really not
complaining I'm not most of just
describing this you know for the record
or for your interest this situation
started with these people really trying
to intimidate me and really trying to
humiliate me and it really ended with
them being pretty humiliated and am I
sitting there and kind of talking and
philosophically but the fact I asked
them I said look you know civil rights
don't just exist for nice people for
people you sympathize with like I
understand whatever reason when I came
through customs and I was extremely
sleep deprived you know I just had come
back from France jet lag and what have
you you know for whatever reason you
just didn't like me but that's why we
have civil rights civil rights aren't to
protect people you like they're to
protect people whom authority figures
dislike or have an animus towards that
maybe irrational or maybe what have you
and we really talk this stuff through
and they were I just say they were
really embarrassed and on the ropes
about it but I think they have no
education in the concept of civil rights
and the concept of human rights as it
applies to Border Services all right all
right so the initial interview I was
simply asked do you have family in
France and I said yes ma'am I do
that was the only question I was given
at what they call primer you know the
first stage of
and then they said okay we're gonna
search back and I said great because I
completely believe it's like in
principle everyone has their bag
searched repeatedly when crossing a
porter you know going through security
at birth stages I have no objection of
my bed search and I I'm not guilty of
any crime but I've done nothing wrong
but to tell someone you do not have the
right to remain silent
and if you choose to remain silent
you will be charged with obstruction of
justice that's some remarkable thing to
tell someone especially when the
questioning is way outside of the
purview of what border service was to be
questioned Canadian citizens but in in
theory we live in a democratic country
in theory I can they all talk to
Parliament and I mean this really seems
to be a kind of legislative vacuum where
Canadian Parliament needs to pass some
kind of resolution so that you know okay
again a Canadian says return to Canada
something else I said to them because
they were really interrogating me they
were really insulting me for no reason I
said to them you know I've been
interrogated by customs all over the
world including communist countries
communist China communist laws no one
has ever treated me as badly as Canadian
customs in my own country
the Americans have never treated me this
badly not the Chinese nobody I'm treated
worse in my own country but Canadian
border services wonders there's nothing
to establish here this like you're not
trying to in Terry it's not a job
interview you're not really trying to
test the value of my character beyond
establishing whether I don't want to
search my bags and once you search my
bags there's not a lot more to know why
am i insulted and denigrated treated in
a subhuman way in my own country
I'm never treated this way in China
Thailand Cambodia Europe anywhere else
in the world look this has been a great
conversation but as you know we can
defer to the tape it's a long tape and
I've given you my written complaint I'm
you know I'm satisfied thank you for
taking the time to talk with me I mean I
understand this is this is probably not
the most pleasant part of your job but
you know thank you for taking time to
talk to me and thank you also for
confirming that as Canadian citizen you
do have the right to record yourself
when you're going through customs that's
great thank you
[Music]